1. IT SEEMS - No
Roland Franklin - No
the latest - No
unbundler - No
to appear - No
in the UK - No
has made - No
a fatal error - Yes (Fatal can be a metaphor for something with severe negative consequences, not literally causing death)
in the preparation - No
of his - No
£697m - No
break-up bid - Yes (Break-up here is a metaphor for the act of taking a company apart, not the literal breaking of objects)
for stationery - No
and packaging group - No
DRG - No

2. That point - No (Point can be metaphorical, but here it is used literally to refer to an argument or statement)
about the core business - Yes (Core here is metaphorical for the central, most important part)
is very unfair - No (Unfair is used literally)
he says - No

3. To add - No
the part-time education - No
and training statistics - No
to those figures - No
does not improve - No
our relative position - Yes (Position can be metaphorically used for situation or status)

4. For many years - No
Thomson lived - No
in New York - No
in his apartment - No
at the Chelsea Hotel - No

5. It does not imply - No
political supremacy - No (Supremacy can have metaphorical uses, but here it is meant in a literal sense of dominance or authority)
and does not suggest - No
that the Pope - No
should administer - No
the affairs - No
of the Church of England - No
he said - No

6. They too - No
reacted with water - No
and a plant operator - No
was burned - Yes (Burned can be metaphorical, but here it is likely literal due to the context of a chemical reaction)
by a cloud of acid gas - No

7. Sometimes - No
he is reminded - No
of several things - No

8. The Iznik pottery - No
from Turkey - No
dating from the fifteenth and sixteenth century - No
explodes with colour - Yes (Explodes is a metaphor for bursting forth or suddenly appearing in abundance, not a literal explosion)
on more sophisticated - No
white grounds - No
Iznik is now - No
highly sought after - No
by Turkish yuppies - No
and prices run - No
from £2,000 - No
or so - No
to £15,000 - No

9. But then - No
do the French - No
Spanish - No
or Italians - No
have a word - No
for it - No

10. The summer sprawl - Yes (Sprawl is metaphorically used for spreading out uncontrolled, not referring to a physical position)
begins to be oppressive - Yes (Oppressive is metaphorically used for causing discomfort, not in the literal sense of political oppression)
at this stage - No
in the year - No
and trigger fingers - Yes (Trigger fingers is a metaphor for eagerness to act, not literal fingers on a trigger)
are itching - Yes (Itching is a metaphor for the desire to do something, not a literal itch)
to snip+back - No
overgrown mallows - No
clear+out - No
the mildewing foliage - No
of golden rod - No
and reduce - No
the overpowering - Yes (Overpowering is metaphorically used for something that is too much or overwhelming, not a literal power)
bulk - No
of bullyboy ground cover - Yes (Bullyboy is a metaphor for something dominating or aggressive, not a literal person)

11. Privacy - No
is an important - No
consideration - No

12. I have - No
no doubt - No
that others - No
will be added - No

13. If there is - No
a failure - No
of imagination - No
to use - No
the royal visit - No
creatively - No
it will also be - No
a failure - No
of nerve - Yes (Nerve is metaphorically used for courage, not the literal nerve in the body)

14. The only two - No
Hong Kong legislators - No
who consistently - No
dare to speak+out - Yes (Speak out is a metaphor for expressing opinions openly, not literally speaking outside)
Mr Martin Lee - No
and Mr Szeto Wah - No
have been threatened - No
with expulsion - No
from the committee - No
now drafting - No
China post-1997 Basic Law - No

15. Leinster face - No
an uphill task - Yes (Uphill task is a metaphor for a difficult challenge, not a literal climb)

16. Most of them - No
are probably muttering - No
I'm too busy - No
to get involved - No
in this sort of thing - No

17. OVERNIGHT FILE - No

18. A mile above - No
the shepherd hut - No
the hillsides - No
ceased their upward rolling - Yes (Rolling is metaphorically used for the shape of the landscape, not literal rolling)
and curved together - No
to form - No
a dead-end valley - Yes (Dead-end is metaphorically used for having no exit or continuation, not a literal death)
of broad-breasted slopes - Yes (Broad-breasted is a metaphor for wide and large, not literal breasts)
five miles from - No
the nearest tarmac road - No
hidden deep - No
in the folds - Yes (Folds is a metaphor for the creases in the terrain, not literal folds in fabric)
of the moors - No

19. He's better looking - No
on TV - No